Eric Liu

think_different.md

I like to rotate a few different strategies.
- I like to live code / code-along with the class as one way to differentiate for ability and prior knowledge. I demo an example working product at the beginning of the lesson. As the lesson progresses, half-way through or every 15-20 minutes, I ask students to look at their screen so they can see and hear my explain my thought process up and code. I code up to a certain point and leave the rest for the students to complete. This gives the students an initial time period to try it out on their own. The higher students will get started and hit the ground running and may not even pay attention to the code-along or maybe just check their current code to see they are the right path. The average student will generally pay attention as they will have started but would like to see a first example. The struggling student will need the differentiation of watching a tutorial, listening to thought process, and getting the initial blocks in order so they can complete the logic problem. An issue that arises is if I do this too often, the average student will wait for the live coding to happen.

- I provide starter code or code skeletons. I provide different levels of code skeletons. Blank file, just function headers and any more complicated code, mostly finished program but specific segments for the student to complete. This is to help differentiate for different abilities. I usually do this at the beginning of the semester for students who do not have any previous programming experience to help them see existing model code.  I only occasionally do this later in the year depending on where the class is at a whole on writing code from a blank file. If additional support is needed, I provide the middle skeleton with just function headers. So even though I have function headers, the students still work on the logic in their algorithm which is the target of the lesson. 

- For high students, I provide additional coding challenges to the code assignment. Such as coding the Vigenere's cipher after they complete the Caesar cipher. Another example is I have students create a Microsoft Paint like program in python Turtle duringlessons using python turtle to draw shapes, procedural abstraction, adding parameter lessons. Helps to push the students to do something creative and visible that has a visual output. This helps keeps the students challenged and actively participating in class, which is sometimes better than having them help their friends in class.

- I try to have students share and talk about their code at certain points of the lab. I'm addedplanning documents where students write their pseudocode, then compare it with their neighbor. I have them answer questions about how many variables do you need? If you have a loop, what is being done for each iteration? Then I have them write the first attempt of their code, if with python, not in an IDE. Students will then be prompted compare their first draft with their neighbor. This helps students across all abilities see they are on the right track, collaborate with their peers, and get peer help at the same time. 
